[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: 100 years
ago, we lived in a world
free from radiofrequencies, no
Wi-Fi, EMFs, no 5G, in fact,
no processed foods
for that matter.
It was a world where
people worked harder
to keep life moving forward
but had the energy to do it.
Meanwhile, one of the
biggest complaints
today is a feeling
overwhelmed and tired even
with every convenience.
Nicolas Pineault, the EMF guy,
is here to tell us why that is.
Welcome, Nicolas.
It's the first time
I've had on this show.
>>NICOLAS PINEAULT:
Thanks for having me.
It's a pleasure.
>>REGINA: And it's a very,
very important topic that's
affecting so many people.
We were talking off
camera a little bit.
We'll get into some of that.
But just starting with one of
the hard facts, in your notes
that I was looking at,
you say our exposure
to radiofrequency radiation
has increased by 1 quintillion
fold--
1 quintillion, I don't even
know how many zeros that is.
We'll have to count it
out-- in the last 100 years.
So there you go.
>>PINEAULT: It's crazy.
100 years ago, we
were not exposed--
four generations
ago, we were not
exposed to all of
these agents that
is radiofrequency radiation.
We're talking about Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth, smart meters, cell
towers, cell phones,
and now we're
getting into more and more
different smart things
that people have glued
to their body but also
smart things in their homes.
So it's really
the multiplication
of the different sources
of radiofrequency.
And just one generation
ago, my generation--
I'm 36-- we didn't have
Wi-Fi when I was young.
We got it, I was in
my teenage years.
So my son who's five
is the first generation
that are exposed to this
radiation cradle to grave.
And that's a big concern.
>>REGINA: Big concern.
Now, you're from Montreal, a
little bit of a French accent
there.
Are you living in a
high density area?
Or do you--
Yeah.
>>PINEAULT: I am.
>>REGINA: Yeah, so we're
going to get into all that.
That can be a little
harder to control.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
>>REGINA: But first of
all, what I want to do
is get into the history
as we as humans,
what happened when electricity
was first introduced
to the human species?
Some of the effects, I mean,
there were some politics
around it knocking down
people's windmills,
doing deals with
the energy company.
It was of scummy
business, actually.
So let's talk about the
first electrification
of planet Earth.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
Scientists and amateurs
and circus people
started playing with static
shocks at the end of the 1700s.
In Arthur Firstenberg's book,
"The Invisible Rainbow,"
he talks about the fact
that some people receiving
static shocks-- we're
talking about very low level
electricity there.
Some people were starting to
get effects that were negative.
They felt that their
nervous system couldn't
handle even static shocks.
And that's not a
lot of electricity.
So even in those
early days, you had
some hints of people that
were more electrosensitive
than others.
And that continued through the
electrification of the world.
>>REGINA: And I think it was
still in the 1700s when I read
his book a few years ago,
I remember this one--
[CHUCKLES] it just
came up, sorry.
They had a kissing machine
that was a kind of a parlor
thing among the wealthy
where you had the person who
was going to be the kisser
hooked up to electricity,
and then a person could
come and kiss them
and get this electric shock.
It was a risqué party
game of the day.
>>PINEAULT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It was so silly.
OK, so now we move past
the 1700s, all right,
and we move into the actual
mass electrification.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
We started with the
Telegram, and then
eventually, it was
the introduction
of the radio and TV.
And radio doesn't just
appear in the air.
A lot of people don't
think about the fact
they open the little knob in
their car, and there's radio.
Well, that's because the waves
are being blasted everywhere
all the time.
And the fact that it's being
blasted everywhere all the time
doesn't make it safe.
It just means that
it's there, and that--
has it been contributing to all
of these new chronic diseases
we're seeing?
Arthur Firstenberg says yes.
And many, many-- we're
talking about hundreds
of EMF scientists
in the world say
we have a big
problem on our hands
because now we've moved from
these radio waves and TV waves
to now cell phone towers.
And that was at the
end of the 1980s
where cell phones
were not very popular.
It was for rich people with
huge Nokia bricks in their car.
And it wasn't that
much of a problem yet.
But now--
>>REGINA: Oh, we've way up
leveled the problem now.
>>PINEAULT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Now we're in trouble.
>>REGINA: I mean, the
species is in trouble
if we can't learn how to
modulate and manage this.
Even though we're very
adaptable as beings,
we can adapt to
a certain extent,
but we're not
adapting fast enough.
That's for sure.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
>>REGINA: Let's go
back a little bit.
Let's go back to
the time when people
started getting
electricity in their homes
where they could
have electrical light
bulbs, where they could
ultimately even have
refrigerators and such.
And Firstenberg brought
up what happened
when the Spanish flu
occurred and electrification
at roughly the same time.
You can talk about the theory
and what you think about that.
>>PINEAULT: Well, the
theory is that each time we
start rolling out new
electric technologies,
a segment of the population
starts getting sick,
and some of it is
blamed on other things.
So he says with the
Spanish flu, there's
been the rollout of certain
man-made technologies
that emit radio waves.
Some of it was radar,
and also some of it
was throughout the
different decades
we had satellites going up.
>>REGINA: The military
was very much affected,
the young men in the military.
>>PINEAULT: In the
military, for sure.
So we have military
research that
shows that some
military personnel
after a few years of exposure
to radars start getting sick.
So there are good reasons
to think that if you're
too close to sources--
and now that's the
reality for most people
that are too close
to these towers--
you get sick over time, not
necessarily just in one day
but over many years
working in these submarines
or on different airplanes they
were exposed to the equipment.
And these people, part of
them, start getting sick.
They report that they
cannot sleep anymore.
They report that
they have headaches.
And what they report also,
on getting sick all the time
because it impairs
your ability to have
a healthy immune system.
>>REGINA: On that note, I'm
going to tell a little anecdote
because it's relevant.
So in the 1980s, I
was a news anchor.
We didn't have all the
cell phone technology
at that time and such.
But on the top of our newsroom
was a massive satellite dish.
I got sicker and
sicker to the point
where I could
hardly get through--
I was so exhausted
on the weekends.
I did the night
time news anchor.
And on the weekends, I really
couldn't recover anymore.
And it got to the point where
I could hardly lift my arms up
anymore to even blow dry
my hair and put makeup on
before I went to work.
And I had to peak at
the end of the day.
A friend of mine, who
I ended up ultimately
having what was either we
thought chronic fatigue
syndrome and Epstein-Barr in my
blood-- that's what shows up.
My friend, a news anchor
sitting under her satellite dish
at the same time, had the
exact same array of symptoms.
And the dish was right
on top of our building.
No one was talking about EMFs.
So what would you
imagine would be
happening sitting under
a satellite dish all day
every day?
>>PINEAULT: Well, we have case
studies from the last two years
telling you what's
going to happen
if you have a 5G tower installed
right next to your apartment.
Part of these case
studies were published
by Dr. Leonard Hardell.
He's the first one who dared
say that Agent Orange was
a carcinogen.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PINEAULT: So he's a hero--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PINEAULT: --in
epidemiology and toxicology.
And now he says that
people who get a cell phone
tower installed on their
apartment-- and these case
studies have been published
in scientific literature
where these people within a
few months start deteriorating.
Their health goes down,
exactly what you've described.
Oh, I have chronic fatigue.
I cannot digest anymore.
I have headaches.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we started with
horrible digestive issues--
>>PINEAULT: There we go.
>>REGINA: --that
remained with us.
I mean, it seemed
to damage us almost
on a cellular or DNA level.
>>PINEAULT: And
what's important is
this, in these
case studies, when
they get out of
this environment,
they start getting better.
So right there you
have a causative agent
that is making people sick
not necessarily in one week,
but when it's that
close to your home,
it can be pretty
fast for some people,
and their health
starts going down.
>>REGINA: Well,
that makes sense.
I mean, if you go
camping, suddenly you
just feel like
you're born again,
and you have energy
after a couple of days.
In our case, this other friend
that's a news anchor and I,
all the introduction of the
more saturated technology
started coming in even
after we left the newsroom.
And it never-- a lot of those
symptoms didn't fully go away--
>>PINEAULT: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --after that
original mass exposure.
So, I mean, we have to
realize some of these
do have long-term effects you
have to wind your way out of.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
>>REGINA: And so before we
get into what starts happening
after we had the radio--
television, radio,
and so forth--
let's talk about
what's happening
to children who are still
in their formative years.
What's happening to the
development of a child's brain?
Even in utero, what's happening?
What studies are out there?
What is happening
to our children
if we live in an
EMF-rich environment?
>>PINEAULT: It starts
with pregnant moms.
Their exposure when
it's higher, they
have more risks of miscarriage.
So it looks like it is
disrupting the normal processes
that should be happening
normally behind the scenes when
you're pregnant.
It's not like you're always
thinking about what's
happening to your fetus.
Everything is supposed to
just be in the right place
and starts developing normally.
We know that in
animal models, it
will disrupt the birth
weight of children.
It will disrupt their health.
And also in rats, in
rat and mice studies,
we saw very well that if
pregnant rats were exposed
by radiofrequency at
a much higher level
than their offspring,
their children
would have bigger risks of
developing food allergies
or ADD/ADHD symptoms.
But in the last decade, we also
have large epidemiology studies
in humans that show
the same thing.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, huge rise
of ADHD in the last two decades,
in particular since we've
all been carrying cell phones
and have our home
computers, et cetera.
So, yeah.
>>PINEAULT: The message from
Yale scientists, Hugh Taylor,
for example, very
mainstream universities,
they say stop putting that phone
near your pregnant abdomen.
They say that the
data is very clear,
and that this is a dangerous
game that we're playing.
Increasing our
exposure in the womb
and also to small children,
the same risks also apply.
So that's very concerning
to me with a five-year-old.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
me as well.
So now let's go to what we were
talking about a moment ago.
When the Spanish flu
came about, a lot
of the people that were
really severely affected
were these radar operators
according to his work, right?
OK, so now let's move
forward a little bit.
So by 2017, it was stated
that a third of the population
now has electrosensitivity,
by 2017, OK.
Now, let's advance
that a couple of years,
and we get a pandemic.
So everybody's sitting
home alone on their devices
more than ever.
While we got a spike
protein in our bodies
that were being
exposed to, a virus,
what do you make of how
that confluence of events?
What do you make
of what it could
have done to humanity at large?
>>PINEAULT: For sure
it's not helping.
We don't have the data to say--
some people have advanced things
like, well, the 5G rollout
created those symptoms.
For sure electrosensitivity
is on the rise and for sure--
and there's good
papers on the topic
even though it was nearly
impossible to publish
on that link.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PINEAULT: There
are good papers
on the topic by Dr.
Beverly Rubik who coined
the term human biofields.
She's a prominent
frontier scientist.
And she said that there
are multiple reasons
to think that our immune systems
are greatly impaired when
we are under EMF exposure.
Guess what happened
when people were home?
EMF exposure was tremendously--
>>REGINA: 24/7, practically.
>>PINEAULT: --higher
than previously.
That's for sure.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PINEAULT: Yeah, so I think
that people did the opposite
of what they should have done.
Instead of going outside
and lowering exposure,
be in nature, be relaxed,
they stayed inside and blasted
themselves with EMFs
almost all day every day,
which is crazy to me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It was a crazy time, and
it was a crazy reaction,
but people didn't
know what else to do
because they were forced apart.
They couldn't go to public
venues and so forth.
This was a really
negative impact of that.
OK, I want to ask
about something else.
A lot of things happen
regarding the heart.
The heart's
electrical in nature.
A lot of things happened
during that pandemic period.
People's hearts were really
damaged on a lot of levels--
fear, not being able
to be with each other,
and also being in this
saturated EMF environment.
At the same time, the
cities were seriously
beginning to roll out 5G.
I mean, you couldn't make a
better scenario for poor health
in the confluence
of these events
and lowered immune
system as a species.
So now we talked about
that for just a moment.
Let's go to the heart itself.
Have there been any studies of
what all of these frequencies
are doing to our hearts?
>>PINEAULT: Well,
I'm aware of two
different holistic
cardiologists who told me
they have some patients come
into the clinic, doctor,
there's something
wrong with my heart.
They have a phone right
there in their shirt pocket.
They remove the phone, tell
the patient to go home,
and it's fixed.
So for some people, it
seems to be a direct impact
to the rhythm of their
heart is disrupting it,
which is not that
complicated to understand
the heart as a rhythm that
is set by electrical pulses.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>PINEAULT: So if you have
something else electrical,
there might be an interference.
And guess what happened?
Is that now with
cell phones there
are warnings for users of
pacemakers to the effect
that if you put it too
close to the pacemaker,
it might be disruptive
to the pacemaker.
And they even said it
could be life threatening
but not to a human heart.
That's--
>>REGINA: Very interesting.
>>PINEAULT: --very interesting.
>>REGINA: They're both
electrical signals.
>>PINEAULT: Right, exactly.
>>REGINA: They're
not going to go
that far because there's
too much politically
and monetarily at stake there.
They'd probably be
censored and stripped
of their titles, et cetera.
>>PINEAULT: Yeah.
But years ago, Dr.
Martin Paul, who's
a professor emeritus at the
Washington State University,
said that according to
his analysis of what
EMFs do to our cells,
it is especially
dangerous to the
heart because of how
it can damage certain specific
cells in the heart that
are responsible for the rhythm.
So he said that
according to him,
EMFs can directly impact
your risks of heart failure.
But I haven't seen any
cardiologists pick up
this idea.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>PINEAULT: But these studies
need to be done for sure.
>>REGINA: Well, it's
just pure logic.
Why wouldn't there already be
1,000 studies on its effect
on the heart, except for
the political reasons
we just mentioned a moment ago?
What about DNA?
What is it doing to our DNA
and, again, the developing DNA
of a fetus and young people?
>>PINEAULT: Well,
we have good reasons
to think that cell
phones and all
of this radiofrequency damages
DNA and also hinders DNA repair
and that's because it will
increase oxidative damage.
These oxidative species,
like reactive oxygen species,
are basically increased
in a level that is
overwhelming to the organism.
So normally, we have
certain antioxidants
that are created in our body
that can take care of those.
But we are already exposed
to the sun and certain things
in our food and so many
sources of oxidative damage
that sometimes you add
phones, or Bluetooth, or Wi-Fi
in the mix, and it becomes
overwhelming to the system.
So this is when you
have DNA breakage.
And we saw that in
the rat studies.
We saw that in vitro models
where you just have cells,
and you expose it to
cell phone radiation.
There were major
studies that proved
without the shadow
of a doubt that we
can have some sort of DNA
damage from this technology.
But these studies are not
even mentioned by regulators
when they set standards.
So there's a lot of--
and maybe you want to
address this now or later,
but there is a
strong corporate will
to keep things as is, to
keep the EMF limits high
and never look at
the health impacts.
>>REGINA: Well, we'll go
there in just one second.
I'm wondering, because
you brought this up,
about telomeres, the telomeres
on our cells and the health
and the length of cellular life.
These delicate, little
hair-like extensions
from the cells that take in
electricity and information
and determine the length
of the cell life, those
have to be affected by this.
>>PINEAULT: I haven't
seen anything specific
on telomere length.
But many EMF
scientists are starting
to talk about EMF
exposure as something
that is an aging impact.
>>REGINA: Well, that
would be telomeres.
>>PINEAULT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PINEAULT: So you're
going to age faster
in a high EMF environment.
In fact, one scientist, Dr.
Magda Havas from Canada,
said instead of calling
it electrosensitivity,
I prefer calling it the
rapid aging syndrome.
>>REGINA: There you go.
That answers that question
because the premature breakage
of telomeres is our aging.
Our cells age as--
>>PINEAULT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --we age.
So even if they
haven't called it that,
Stuart Hameroff is
the guy on that.
It'd be interesting to see
if he's done any work on it.
So let's go back to what
you were talking about.
Why would all these
companies want
to have high levels
of EMF production?
>>PINEAULT: It's
business as usual.
Business is good.
And the lobbying power
of the telecom industry
surpasses big pharma
at the moment.
So people think
that, oh, there's
corruption with pharma or big
food influencing regulators.
Well, the same thing is
happening but even more
exponentially with
the FCC and regulators
around the world where the
regulators are completely
captured by industry.
In fact, one of the
heads of the FCC,
the Federal Communications
Commission in the US,
basically was sworn
in as the director,
and he said, I'm going to
destroy the FCC from the inside
out and he did.
And now the FCC is not
looking at health impacts.
They're just essentially--
Robert F. Kennedy
Jr., that I had the
chance to interview,
told me they are a sock
puppet for the industry.
They don't do anything
regarding health.
And what we need to do
is to clean up the house
because things are
stalling on many levels
because the industry
is in control
of the funding of
what's going to be done.
>>REGINA: Of the regulation,
i.e., lack of all regulation.
>>PINEAULT: Exactly, exactly.
>>REGINA: It's criminal.
It's unethical.
It's lacking compassion
for humanity.
There's nothing I can say
about this other than that.
It's all bad.
So now let's talk about--
in some countries, they've
taken a little bit more
seriously than the US has.
We're all in on the corporate
level and not warning
our citizens of what's--
except for people like you--
of what's at stake here.
So let's talk about phone gate.
>>PINEAULT: Yes, so phone gate
happened when a French doctor
found out that the French
government had tested hundreds
of different cell phones with
0 millimeters of separation
from the body.
This is how we
use phones, right?
It touches our face.
It touches our--
>>REGINA: Wherever
our pockets are.
>>PINEAULT: --pockets, exactly.
So it's very close to the body,
except manufacturers normally
test it 5 to 25
millimeters from the body.
I don't know why
exactly, but there are--
>>REGINA: Tell Americans
how far 25 millimeters is.
We think in inches.
>>PINEAULT: Oh, well, I
mean, it's very small,
but still that degree
of separation--
>>REGINA: It's not on your body.
>>PINEAULT: --it's
not on your body.
And people don't realize, but
if you go 1 millimeter closer,
you might greatly increase
how much radiation that is.
So what this French
doctor found out
is that essentially, 90% of all
phones sold in France in 2018
were not compliant.
They were over the safety limit.
And to this day, this
is still happening.
And there are good
reasons to think
that it's the vast majority
of phones around the world
go over the safety limit,
sometimes by many fold.
And this led to the iPhone
12, for example, in France,
they had to lower the
radiation level that is emitted
by this particular phone.
And why the 12?
I don't know why the 12.
They need to do that
with the 13, 14--
>>REGINA: And everything else.
>>PINEAULT: --15, 16,
and everything else.
So it's just another
trick by the industry
where they were able to game
the system to expose users
as much as possible because
they keep saying two things.
They keep saying, well,
users want faster phones,
so we're going to do it.
More radiation is good.
And they also say there is
no health effect whatsoever.
And that's--
>>REGINA: That's a lie.
>>PINEAULT: --the
biggest lie, completely.
>>REGINA: They're just
lying to the public.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
>>REGINA: I mean, there should
be huge types of penalties
for lying to the
public in that way
and deceiving us on such an
important issue, of course.
And a lot of them use the
excuse, you guys want to--
you guys love gaming.
5G is the ideal
platform for gaming,
fast, fast, speed, speed.
And they use gaming
as a primary issue
of why we're demanding that we
have this kind of technology
all around us.
>>PINEAULT: Yeah.
But that's an illusion--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PINEAULT: --that we need
faster speeds and faster Wi-Fi.
You know what's fast?
A wire.
>>REGINA: And ethernet.
>>PINEAULT: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Ethernet wire.
>>PINEAULT: It's thousands
to millions of times
faster than Wi-Fi
because instead
of sending a signal
through the air that
has a resistance to
it, you're sending it
through a fiber
optic, a glass cable.
So the most
efficient way to have
gaming and all sorts
of things in society
that are currently wireless
is to have them wired.
So we could--
>>REGINA: But then you
don't have it in your pocket
when you're waiting in line, or
on an airplane, or something.
>>PINEAULT: No, for sure.
But--
>>REGINA: The
convenience, it's always
that comes down to
this convenience
and needing immediate
gratification.
The species is--
>>PINEAULT: That's correct.
>>REGINA: That's what we've
been trying to get to.
>>PINEAULT: The
point is many things
that are wireless at the
moment could be wired.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PINEAULT: And then it
would lower the levels.
So again, that's
just-- but the industry
is pushing more wireless,
wireless, wireless,
and say cut the cords.
We don't want any cords.
But again, people
who listen to Gaia
don't go to McDonald's
generally speaking
because they know that
convenience can hurt them.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PINEAULT: The same thing is
true for going all wireless.
It is convenience, but
it comes with a cost.
>>REGINA: And you
just brought up
something a minute
ago that stands out
to me like a sore thumb.
Apple was forced to reduce the
radiation from the iPhone 12.
That means Apple can
reduce the radiation
on every model of
phone, if they wish,
and so can Samsung and
all the other companies.
>>PINEAULT: They can.
In fact an engineer who's
a PhD, James C. Lin,
I heard him in a
presentation last year.
He said that phones emit levels
that are likely tens of times
too high compared to what they
need to connect to the antenna.
So in other words, if we
lowered the power of your phone
by five-fold, maybe it
would still be the same.
But why phone manufacturers
don't do that,
and they don't do the same
with their towers that are way
too strong for what they need,
the reason they don't do it
is because other
competitors don't do it.
So it's a waiting game.
>>REGINA: There's a
delusion and perception
you're going to get
better, faster service
from this guy who's not
lowering the radiation.
>>PINEAULT: And they're
not following what's
called the ALARA principle.
And nuclear radiation
is very clear
that you want to be exposed to
as little as humanly possible.
ALARA is As Low As
Reasonably Achievable.
So if you have a cell
phone tower, in order
to make it work, you can
lower to level 100-fold,
you have to do it
under that principle.
It's not being done.
At the moment is anything goes.
And as much as humanly
possible is really
what the industry is
following right now.
>>REGINA: So we're going
to get to this in a minute.
We've got to take back our
own power literally here.
This is very, very important.
People pay close
attention to this
and take back their own power.
So looking at 5G
going up everywhere,
without people's understanding
or even permission,
most people don't even
know they've just raised
a new 5G tower right near them.
And then from the
5G tower, they pay
people to use
rooftops, church tops,
and so forth, to
rent that space,
to put the little relay
antennas because it
has a fairly short signal
hopping from one to the next
but very powerful and
potentially very damaging to us
as human beings.
And so there has to be a
way to start waking up.
Some small cities have actually
come together and stopped it.
Can you tell us
just a little bit
about a couple of places who
have managed to keep 5G out
of their neighborhoods?
>>PINEAULT: Yes, there's
a few cities in the US
that were able to do that.
But I would say when it comes
to cell phone tower placement,
India is one of the leaders
of all the countries.
In 2012, more than
10 years ago, they
started dismantling
cell towers that
were too close to
schools, playgrounds--
>>REGINA: Excellent.
>>PINEAULT:
--hospitals, and they
put in laws that are stricter.
Still the telecoms are
fighting to overrule this,
so it's a big fight out there.
The telecoms would
love every rooftop
to have an antenna
because it's what
makes their business great.
But we have to stop this and
put the cell phone towers away
from people because
for sure distance
is a very big factor when it
comes to harm or lack of harm.
And for one thing
that is crazy--
and you're going to
laugh about this one--
cows in France or cow
farmers won a lawsuit
over the placement
of a cell tower
because you can quantify
how much milk the cows--
>>REGINA: Excellent.
>>PINEAULT: --get out.
So the dairy farmers
said, well, my yield
was 30% lower since you
installed this big tower
in the middle of my field.
>>REGINA: So tell us about
mothers and their babies.
>>PINEAULT: Well, exactly.
So what ended up happening
is that the judges saw,
well, there's causality here.
You install the tower,
the cows have less milk,
and the dairy farmer
is going under.
He's losing his business.
And they were forced
to move away the tower.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>PINEAULT: And
the ironic thing is
that if you do that with
humans, and you say,
well, you install the tower,
and now my health suffers,
it's not as easy.
>>REGINA: No, no, it's not.
I mean, really for
those people out there
who are extroverts
and born activists--
everyone is born with
a purpose in this time,
and a lot of people were born
to activate and take action
on things that are no longer
working for this planet.
And I'm saying that because
some of the people watching us
are native activists.
Some of their kids are
growing into activists.
And I personally
believe this is one
of the most important issues.
So we can get our
immune sovereignty
and our mental and
emotional sovereignty
back to stop the bombardment
of these frequencies
of the human species, so
calling all activists out there.
Another anecdote,
a friend of mine
was sleeping across from a bank.
She lived in a densely
populated apartment building.
She had a bank of
smart meters just
across the wall from her
head, sensitive person.
She was nearly dead
when this all happened.
When it came to my
attention, I hadn't seen her
in a while, mutual friend.
She could barely speak.
She wasn't getting out of bed.
She had no appetite.
That's when I found
out-- and we're
going to talk about a
number of these-- there
are ways to deal with this.
All of them are
new in development,
the last decade or so.
But the one called FLFE, which
I found out about and actually
started telling people
about because of her, I
heard about it.
Without her knowledge,
I had this technology
focused on her apartment
within 30 days.
And I had a mutual
friend talk to her.
And her mind
started coming back.
She could complete sentences.
She started getting
a little more energy.
Then she started walking.
Then at the end of 30
days, she was normal.
Her mind was back, and
she was moving furniture.
That was the only change.
Now, that particular company--
FLFE has scientific studies
done on it out of university
and a lot in thousands
of anecdotal.
So we know that works,
and it works on a space.
It identifies an
address, and it changes
the energy in the space to
knock down those frequencies.
But you know of other
types of technologies,
too, that people
can use, and I want
you to share them because
we have to do everything
we can to protect ourselves.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
There's many different
types of tools
that we can use to
minimize EMF exposure.
The first thing that I'll say
is that if you have a phone,
and the phone is
off, that's a tool,
lowering the number of
sources we are exposed to.
And we still need to do that
regardless of anything else.
One of it is distance, having
a distance from your phone.
We talked about the 0
millimeter distance.
And there are so many
issues related to that,
so creating distance
from those machines,
also using the subtle
energy devices.
Many people report
feeling better.
So I think it's making
us more resilient to all
of these unavoidable
exposures in the environment.
So why not?
Even doctors reminded
me in-- this year
I've been interviewing
a lot of doctors
that treat electrosensitives.
Many patients report feeling
better using certain devices.
It might be FLFE.
It might be something
else called biogeometry--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PINEAULT: --by Dr.
Ibrahim Kareem from--
>>REGINA: Yes, yes,
he's very good.
>>PINEAULT: --Egypt.
He's very prominent.
But at the same
time, some people
use biogeometry still
bothered by a phone.
So that tells me that maybe
it's not a one-size-fits-all.
So I have--
>>REGINA: We have to try them.
We have to start experimenting.
>>PINEAULT: We have to try
different approaches, correct.
There are also physically
blocking technologies
that we can use.
For example, Shield Your
Body is a good company.
They do certain
types of cases that
will deflect the radiation
away from the body, which
is very convenient to especially
people that want to use a belt
hoister for their phone.
And there are
different technologies
like this that are recommended--
>>REGINA: Will just
block the signal.
>>PINEAULT: --that would block
the signal, deflect it away.
They're not perfect
solutions, but they
are useful when they
are used correctly.
>>REGINA: And so most
of it is really--
I mean, I just
talked about the fact
that there are many people
watching this who are activists
and can start taking on
their towns and saying,
wait a minute,
hold on, and can go
to the church who's earning
however much money they
would earn a month by putting
one of those antenna on top.
And churches are always--
a lot of NGOs, a lot
of different charitable
organization headquarters,
they're always short on funds,
and those are targets
for that industry.
So to start educating
them, this is
what you're doing
to your people,
to the people that work
here and congregate here,
so education and so forth.
But what we're talking
about just a moment ago,
these are activist things
we can do for ourselves.
We can bring these in.
And you told me off
camera-- what was it?
That the average-- on
average, the average household
now has how many devices?
>>PINEAULT: 23 different
wireless devices.
However, one of my
colleagues does surveys.
He goes to big homes
and with EMF meters,
and sometimes he finds
150 in smart homes.
You have the thermostats.
You have the security
systems, the toaster.
Everything is connected.
These homes are literally sick.
And people call--
>>REGINA: Sick home.
>>PINEAULT: My colleague-- his
name is Brian from Shielded
Healing--
he goes there because people
sometimes are in dire need.
They say, Brian, I have this big
home in Beverly Hills or in LA.
It's pretty bad.
A lot of people are
into smart things.
And smart really means EMF.
>>REGINA: Yeah, EMF,
that's what it means.
>>PINEAULT: It's kind of
a hidden term right there.
>>REGINA: It means sick.
>>PINEAULT: It means sick.
So when Brian is
done with them, they
have wired these technologies.
They also have safe
spaces, shielded bedroom,
for example, where you can have
a completely enclosure bedroom.
You don't even have any exposure
from outside cell phone towers.
>>REGINA: It's
like a safe house.
>>PINEAULT: Pretty much.
>>REGINA: You have to
create your own safe house.
>>PINEAULT: Well, yeah, that's
part of the most advanced
strategies.
But it's something that works.
>>REGINA: Worth considering,
especially where
you're sleeping, where
your kids are sleeping.
Now, you live in Montreal.
It's a densely-- how's
the 5G situation up there?
>>PINEAULT: There's some
5G in downtown areas.
But personally, I'm just
as concerned about 4G.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>PINEAULT: That's the reality.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PINEAULT: The
reality is 5G the way
it's been explained on the
internet-- and a lot of people
said 5G is so bad.
It's so bad.
It is bad.
However, many towers have 3G,
4G, LTE, 5G antennas on it.
What is the most
dangerous kind of EMF?
A lot of people ask
me this question.
We don't know.
And the thing is if we
are so focused on 5G,
and maybe people
watching this at home,
they say, oh, I don't have
5G in my town, I'm safe,
are you safe?
No, because all the
other technologies
previously were just as unsafe.
So that's something
I have to say.
In Montreal, I'm exposed
to much more 4G and LTE.
It's not good.
And 5G is just adding more
insult to the-- insult already
there.
>>REGINA: Just a
different frequency.
>>PINEAULT: Just a
And there are good
reasons to think
that 5G is even more dangerous
per unit of radiation
compared to previous
technologies.
But we need to
think about Wi-Fi.
We need to think
about Bluetooth.
All of these exposures
are cumulative.
That's the thing.
I'm not concerned
about one person
being exposed to one Bluetooth
thing over five minutes.
That's not the point and not
even one phone call or one
day of exposure.
It's over the lifetime.
But people are starting
to lose their resilience
to this technology.
And it will lower your
antioxidant levels.
It will increase your
oxidative stress levels.
And then eventually
for some people,
it puts them over the edge,
just like your friend.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And fertility rates,
testosterone levels,
the hormonal system, what
have you come to understand
through all these studies?
>>PINEAULT: Well, many, many
scientists say that it's been
crystal clear for years--
researchers from the
Cleveland Clinic.
I often cite these
mainstream universities
because some people
seem to think
this is a fringe topic
with fringe scientists
that are not even published
in peer-reviewed publications.
This is a lie.
This is a complete fabrication.
But the industry continues
to push this idea that just
a few handful of
fringe scientists.
No, no, very
mainstream scientists--
the researchers at the Cleveland
Clinic in their brochures
in 2010--
I could go as back as 2010--
they were saying that we should
preventively not have a phone
in the pocket if you want to--
>>REGINA: If you
want to reproduce.
>>PINEAULT: --conceive
and reproduce.
Why is that?
Because they did
the rat studies.
They did the human studies.
They found that if you
keep a phone in the pocket,
you're going to have a
reduction in fertility.
You also have a reduction
in testosterone.
So the men out there
that say, well, I
don't want any kids anymore--
>>REGINA: No problem, keep
your phone in your pocket.
>>PINEAULT: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: But there are other
potential ramifications.
>>PINEAULT: But if
I tell them, well,
your testosterone is
going to be hurt, oops.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PINEAULT: Right.
So a lot of people think
about plastics, BPA, BPB,
and they say, oh, this is
an endocrine disruptor.
We hear this word.
It means hormonal
disruption, endocrine.
The same thing can be
said from radio frequency.
So it's all around us.
But if it's in
the pocket, you're
going to have a
disruption there.
We also have good
reasons to think
that if we talk on the phone,
you have endocrine disruption
to the thyroid gland.
And for some people, if they
get in a cleaner environment,
they start having a
thyroid that works better.
So it is just disruption
to any body part
that you want to name.
>>REGINA: OK, so our
reproductive systems,
our immune system--
in fact, I interviewed a
fellow named Lee Harris.
I don't know if you're
familiar with him.
But he channels a group
called the Zs, which
have turned out to be pretty
accurate on a lot of things.
So that's why we keep
having him back, wonderful.
And I asked them about EMFs.
And they said, oh, well,
this particular technology
is shrinking the human brain
and some of the organs, too.
And I thought, what?
[LAUGHS] So anyway, we
continued that discussion a bit,
but I thought, OK,
we need to take
this-- that coming
from that source even,
we need to take this
very, very seriously.
So for you, how do you live?
You live in Montreal.
You have a little five-year-old.
What do you do?
>>PINEAULT: When my
wife was pregnant,
I brought her the idea that--
I knew it would not
be well received.
I said, Jan, maybe we should
stop having Wi-Fi altogether.
Cut down Wi-Fi in
the router and just
have cables running
down the corridor.
And eventually she said, yeah,
well, I'm pregnant with a kid,
and that's a new
feeling for her.
It's something very
precious, very fragile.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PINEAULT: Right?
So the research
on fetuses is not
looking good where it
might impair the brain
development, the normal embryo.
And then also miscarriage rates
go up when you're exposed.
So she saw all of it, and she
helped me also publish my book.
So she was aware
of the research.
And since then, we
live without Wi-Fi.
Sometimes I use my phone, and
it's connected to the antenna.
But in the home, we
don't have Wi-Fi.
And the difference is this, if
you have good Wi-Fi coverage
in every room in your home, what
is another word for coverage?
EMF pollution.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PINEAULT: You're
bringing it to every room.
And, yes, your neighbors
have a Wi-Fi router,
but think about
your own stuff first
because your own Wi-Fi router
is oftentimes the one that
is closest to your body.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PINEAULT: And my son, when
he was very little and just
crawling around, would have
been right next to the router
in our living room.
I couldn't live with that idea.
So I have cables, and I
use my phone with a cable.
I use my computer with a
cable, same thing with my wife.
And we don't have anything
else wireless, really.
>>REGINA: Good for you.
>>PINEAULT: So I
barely use my phone.
When I use it,
I'm at a distance.
And I don't have
Wi-Fi on my computer.
I don't use Bluetooth anything.
I took my Bluetooth keyboard.
I sold it to someone else
and the Bluetooth everything.
I used to have Bluetooth.
So I'm human, too.
Before getting into EMFs
seven to eight years ago,
I had everything Bluetooth.
I was excited.
I had the router right
next to my computer.
Didn't really realize
these dangers.
But once I knew better,
I had to do better.
So I started
cleaning up my home,
and now it feels like a much
healthier place to live in.
>>REGINA: And then
it's our habits.
I mean, we wake
up in the morning.
People go and get their
little laptop in bed,
have a cup of tea, and
get on their cell phones
and check into their emails
and all the news for the day.
So we start with
the pollution just
for our own emotional
needs in the morning.
And for people listening to you
are like, oh, no, no, no, no.
But if you just
hardwire your computer,
you can still have at least
a lot of that need met.
>>PINEAULT: For sure.
>>REGINA: So there you go.
>>PINEAULT: And just
think about where
you're spending a lot of time.
That's the thing.
Some people tell me things
that are completely--
seem almost funny to me.
But they say, Nick, I have
this Bluetooth toaster.
There's the Bluetooth sign.
Should I change it?
And I say, well,
how much time do
you spend in front of
your toaster, right?
Five minutes, two
minutes, four minutes.
It depends if you want your
toast light or very dark.
So it's almost
irrelevant in the sense
that you're not spending
a lot of time there.
So just start focusing
on how much time are you
spending in your phone.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PINEAULT: How much
time are you spending
in front of a computer?
And for most people
in this day and age,
it's a lot of hours per week.
So if you can mitigate your
computer, mitigate your phone,
you're getting to a
point where you are
starting to lower that load.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PINEAULT: It's not
avoiding altogether.
It doesn't exist.
It's like talking about toxins.
OK, start avoiding all toxins.
Well, OK.
>>REGINA: Good luck.
>>PINEAULT: I'm
going to go to Mars.
It doesn't work on planet Earth.
We are being bombarded.
It is polluted.
But if you start
reducing exposure,
what many people realize,
my resilience is going up.
My sleep is better.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
energy levels going
>>PINEAULT: Energy
levels, hormones
>>REGINA: Immune
systems bouncing back.
>>PINEAULT: So in
reality, you have
to find the point where you
lower EMFs enough that you feel
good about your exposures
and you feel good
about your health.
If you are not happy about
your health currently,
and you realize that
when you go camping you
feel like a much
different person,
there's some work to do
because your environment is
sick at the moment.
>>REGINA: That's our metric.
Go camping for a
couple of days and see
how you do, and then you come
back and make the adjustments.
>>PINEAULT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: We can all be
activists in our own lives.
And this isn't crying wolf.
This is a very
serious problem that's
getting more serious literally
by the day, week, month,
and year.
So, Nick, thank you.
Nicholas, thank you so
much for taking the time
to be with us today and
flying in from Canada.
And I think that your message
has probably been very well
heard by our audience today.
>>PINEAULT: Thanks so much.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
To follow Nicolas's work, you
can go to the emfguide.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]